MTHS4005 Lecture 3 - transcript Summary
So going back to the example we had before where A was just the even numbers two for six and b was 3 or 6 and divisible by three, the probability of at least one of these occurring is not going to be the probability of a plus the probability of B, because what we have is we have some overlap which essentially results in double counting. And we have additivity if and b two disjointed events also known as mutually exclusive, then the probability of a or b occurring is just the probability of a plus probability of B. So going back to our earlier discussion of measures, axioms a1, a2, a3, essentially shared by all measures. Another important concept is probability of an impossible event, and probability of possible event is zero. And when going to talk about an event it's a set of outcomes to which we can assign a probability. So the key point from what we've said so far is that when we assign probability to an event that's going to lie somewhere between 0 and 1 and close it.

If A is a subset of B, then the probability of A occurring is less than or equal to the probability of B. So in other words, if I'm interested in the total weight of everybody in in this lecture theatre, well that's going to be greater than the total weight of everybody in the front row, because the goes in the front row is just a subset of the whole. This is going to be the probability of A plus the probability of b minus the probability of the intersection. So the first axiom states that the probability of A is positive doesn't put an upper bound on it, but it says well the probability of the whole sample space is equal to one. So the probability of the empty set probability we assigned to something which is impossible to occur is equal to zero. So the probability of a compliment is just equal to one minus the probability of a.

So here, if we want the probability black or king probability black, plus the probability of the king minus the ones we counted twice, which will be the white case. So if we do 720, the number of ways your numbers can appear divided by the total number of possibilities of six numbers, 32 million odds, we get about 1 in 45,000,000. I have no choices then the number of possible outcomes is n one times n two all the way up to times n k. But now if I tell you that the first dice is showing a six, what our probability that overall will have a 12 will, all we need now is for the second dice to show a six. And we get six with the first dice divided by the probability of the first event the probability.